Hello and welcome. I'm Michelle Hussein
and this show will be a place where
every weekend you can hear one essential
conversation that provides insight into
the ideas and people shaping our world.
And my first is with someone who's
leading a country right at the forefront
of the disrupted global order. It's Mark
Carney, the prime minister of Canada.
His country is on the front line of
global trade turbulence. It's taking
heat from its southern neighbor, a
country to which it is highly connected.
Canada and the United States, after all,
share the world's longest border. And
yet today, Donald Trump still believes
it should be the 51st state. As a
result, Canada is in the midst of a
scramble to make its economy more
self-sufficient.
That's what Mark Carney stepped into
seven months ago when he was entirely
new to politics. He's a trained
economist, a former central banker, a
climate champion who's now in charge of
navigating a fossil fuel economy through
these uncertain times. It was a weekend
when we spoke. He came by Bloomberg's
London Studios, a place which he is
familiar with as he's chaired the board
here in the past. He was in London to
watch Canada's women play England in the
Rugby World Cup final. Unfortunately for
Canada, they lost. But we talked about
Donald Trump, of course, about big
foreign policy moves surrounding Ukraine
and Gaza, and about Carney's philosophy
of leadership. To get a sense of what
motivates him, I started by asking him
to take me back to his early years, his
family, and the place where he was born,
Fort Smith, in Canada's Northwest
Territories.
[Music]
They went up to the north. Uh I wasn't
technically all the way to the Arctic,
but close enough. Uh they went up to the
north as yeah as a adventure of
pioneering. There were young teachers
and going to the what seemed as the
frontier. Of course, there were people
there already. Um so there was that
element. Strong sense in my family of
public service. Um my dad was a civil
servant. Uh as I say, my parents are
educators. a sense of that is the higher
calling. Uh so I've always had that
element even though I've had a private
sector career. I was fortunate to be the
central bank governor as you say and in
two G7 countries and at a time when
because there were major financial
problems including here in the city of
London that that job was broader than
usual major financial reforms going on
having to be negotiated around the
world. So I've I've in that regard I've
been thinking about what next in public
service. Yes. Um, candidly, the prospect
of becoming an elected politician in
Canada, let alone prime minister, I felt
like was receding.
And then uh in over the course of the
year and the runup to uh when I stood
for election, I became more and more
concerned as some others did about the
potential direction of our country and
and felt that given my background, I
would have a chance to help change it.
>> Did you get elected because of President
Trump? Really? Uh, I got elect. Well,
you'd have to ask the voters in Canada.
I I I think
>> Well, you stood because of President
Trump, didn't you? You made the choice
just before you announced it just before
the inauguration.
>> I stood I did not stand because of
President Trump. No, I stood because I
believe that the person who was likely
to become prime minister certainly in
all the polling uh was not the right
person for Canada. that it would have
been a divisive uh government uh in that
case and would have taken our country
back as opposed to Ford. It turned out
to be the case that very quickly once I
was in the leadership campaign before I
became leader of the Liberal Party and
and then before the general election
campaign, it it turned out that
President Trump's actions and the trade
war as as it's known uh really
intensified and then I became more
relevant. So certainly yes it helped
that people made a judgment that I was
best placed to deal with it.
>> So you went into it with your eyes open
but what has surprised you in these six
to seven months?
>> What has surprised me the most? Um
I guess a couple of things. One is how
relentless it is. So I took a decision
in early January to stand for the
leadership and from that point on it has
been non-stop as close to 24/7 as
possible. I conceptually knew that. I'd
had high pressure jobs before but it's
it's that much more so. So that's the
first thing. I think that the
the importance of and the fluidity of
international relations. I knew
international relations are important,
but the fluidity of those relations and
the importance of those relationships,
those personal relationships uh with
with world leaders, some of which I had
in advance, but others I've had to
develop. Uh that has surprised me, the
degree to which that is important.
>> What do you miss about your old life? I
imagine your family probably miss your
old life.
>> Uh yes. Uh I I'm I'm sure they do. Uh I
miss What do I miss about I I miss
No having any privacy basically.
>> I was thinking about something you said
in 2020 about how it is easier to be a
central banker in a democracy than a
politician. But it feels like that's not
even the half of it, right? You have
become prime minister at a time when
global trade is disrupted as never
before. Global alliances are under
pressure as never before. How has it
been? Uh I stand by my earlier statement
that it is was easier to be a central
banker. Um it's well part of the reason
I am in this position is because of what
you just described. Um it's part of the
reason why I put myself forward. It's
possibly one of the reasons why I was
elected. Uh
in some respects, I'm going to say an
odd thing. In some respects, it's easier
when the problems are very clearly out
in front of everybody. I think all
Canadians understand that the our
relationship with the United States has
changed fundamentally. Um that the world
is a more dangerous and divided place.
And then the question becomes, what do
we do about it? And
sometimes just on reflection if you look
back when times were good quote unquote
but problems were building up that's
when it's more difficult to take the big
decisions that are necessary here you
know the score
>> here you know that we have to act uh
it's important to be as open and as
possible with people in terms of the
assessment of the scale of what needs to
be done and then and then to be decisive
>> I do want to explore how much harder
your task is as prime minister in some
of your domestic priorities and
certainly your foreign policy priorities
because the United States is not the
partner that it has been before and
because its priorities have shifted. Of
course, you've got specific bilateral
issues with the United States primarily
over trade and the Canadian economy has
been hit hard by what President has done
particularly on steel and and and the
auto sector and aluminium. What is your
strategy for when the US, Mexico, Canada
trade deal is reviewed next summer? What
are you are you are you hoping the US
economy by that stage is in a position
where President Trump takes a different
view on tariffs?
>> Uh we want the best for the US economy
just as we want uh well slightly
stronger. We want the best for the
Canadian economy but uh uh so no our
strategy is not to expect some weakness
in the US economy that is going to
change US negotiating position. Uh our
strategy, part of our strategy has been
well has been to pursue the best deal
for Canada.
We have the best trade deal at the
moment. 85% of our trade with the United
States is tariff-free. We have the
lowest average tariff against uh of any
country with the US. It's 5 a.5%. Uh so
we're in a good position now with two
important caveats. One is your question,
what's going to happen with the
renegotiation of what they call USMCA?
Um and secondly some key sectors steel
autos uh aluminium uh uh force products
as being the being the main ones will
make it increasingly clear that in
certain sectors particularly the
integration of the Canadian and US and
Mexican economies is essential to US
competitiveness. So in steel in autos as
two example that that linkages are so
tight they're so tight such that the
Canadian content or sorry the US content
in Canadian finished automobiles is
higher than the average US content in
American automobiles. So we make America
stronger in these sectors and our
strategy is to make sure that that is as
well understood as possible.
>> Okay. So the the prosperity of both
countries is at stake. Your language
though has changed on President Trump
since you came to office. Do you
remember when you talked about him as a
bully that needed to be stood up to in
February when you were campaigning?
We're going to stand up to a bully.
We're not going to back down. And yet
now you're much more likely to to talk
in more consiliatory terms. But I mean,
obviously one is campaigning and one is
governing, but perhaps people who wanted
you to do the standing up to the bully
might feel that you haven't done that as
much as you suggested when you were
campaigning.
>> Well, let let let's be clear the actual
situation. We we're one of
there two countries effectively that put
retaliatory tariffs on the United
States. Two countries in the world. We
put them on. We've kept them on. We kept
them on up to a point where they ceased
to be effective. Uh they we got to a
point when we took our retaliatory
tariffs off, we had 85% of our trade
tariff-free. When we put them on, given
the steps that President Trump had
taken, it was less than it was a third
of our trade was tariffree. So I, you
know, strikes me that that's that's
pretty effective. Number one,
>> he has shown his power, hasn't he, over
you? Like for example, your digital
services tax. You announced it, he hated
it. You had to back down on that.
>> The digital service tax was announced
multiple years before it was just
effectively coming in. It was coming
into effect. Look, the United States
>> and it couldn't because President Trump
wasn't having it.
>> We made a decision um in the context and
let's let's what happened after we uh
took that digital service tax off.
Within weeks, the president confirmed in
writing, formally confirmed uh in an
executive order that tariff-free status
for the vast majority of our something
broader at stake. Something very much
broader. I get that. But I just wonder
how how you reconcile yourself to that
because it is different from the tone
you str
my my responsibility is to get the best
possible deal for Canada. We have the
best deal in the world at this point.
Now that that next issue is where is the
USMCA negotiation going to land?
>> Yeah, the trade agreement uh the broader
trade agreement going to land and that's
being prepared for that and working with
the US and that. But let's let's be
absolutely clear. The um the United
States does have tremendous leverage in
the near term over Canada, over the
European Union, over the United Kingdom
because our economies became linked on
the basis of certain assumptions. Those
assumptions have now changed. And so
part of this is stabilizing that
relationship. It's the US right to have
different priorities. We respect that
they've made that choice.
uh we look to stabilize the trading
relationship. Okay, what are the new
terms under the new objectives of the
United States that are in the best
interest of Canada? And then the big
thing that we do and a big part of I
think why I was elected was what else
are we going to do? And one of the core
points that we've made from the start is
that we can give ourselves far more than
the United States can take away. So we
have agency. We can have one Canadian
economy. We've taken major moves towards
that one Canadian economy.
>> Takes time.
>> It takes time. It takes time, but it's
worth it because we never want to be in
this position again. We never want to be
in this position again. And so that's
building at home and it's diversifying
abroad. We're having this interview in
London. Part of the reason I'm in London
is uh are deepening our trade
relationship with the UK and with
Exactly.
>> Yeah. Because 75% of your trade is with
is with the United States
>> and that now has that now has problems
and that will change. Okay. Um, have you
learned anything from President Trump?
>> Uh, have I learned I've learned lots of
things from President Trump. You always
learn things from from people. Um, I
think I've learned that um
the value uh I don't fully subscribe to
this, but I see the effectiveness the
value of the term they would use is
flooding the zone of doing multiple
things at the same time and the
effectiveness that can have. Um I think
that he has a very effective way in his
own almost unique manner of framing
issues and uh and and uh I of dominating
uh the agenda uh if I can put that away
as well.
>> I even wondered about the way that you
you know when you canceled the carbon
tax you signed it on camera with a
flourish. It was like executive order
style. Have you learned an element of
performance like you have to be seen to
be doing the job in a certain way? Cuz
it didn't feel very Canadian
>> to do that the signing on camera with
the flourish.
>> Uh I think that um
I don't know that that I it's
interesting. I wouldn't have ascribed it
to him per se. I just think that in a
time when there is a lot of pressure,
people are under a lot of pressure,
there's a lot of uncertainty, the value
of being very clear. So I'll give you
I'll take the example you used. That was
the first day that I became prime
minister. The first thing we did was to
cancel that carbon tax. The next thing I
did was to come to Europe, come to the
UK and to the Canadian Arctic, the three
founding peoples of Canada, the French,
the British, um, and the indigenous
Canadians, and to underscore our
sovereignty, our history, but also to
set up trade agreements with the first
two and a and a major intention to
invest in our Arctic in defense and
security. And so both of those things
had substance. We canceled the carbon
tax. Those trips had substance because
they were setting up trade agreements
and security. But they also had yes
symbolism, history, sovereignty, action.
And when you're in, sorry, Michelle, but
when you're in a crisis, particularly
this case, a trade crisis, an economic
crisis, a crisis of sovereignty, given
some of the points that President
Trump's saying about the 51st state,
when you're in a crisis, you need to not
just act decisively, but be seen to act
decisively and that that's what we were
doing.
>> Can we explore that first through
Ukraine? You are part of the coalition
of the willing. You have a big Ukrainian
Canadian community. So Ukraine is
important to the country as a whole as
well as I'm sure to you personally.
President Trump is now talking about
Ukraine winning, but when he does so, he
emphasizes that Ukraine he thinks is
going to do that with Europe's help. To
what extent can Ukraine win without the
US being fully front and center and
offering the security back stops for the
future?
>> Okay, so there's a lot in that question
and I think it's important to
distinguish the components. Ukraine with
Europe's help, with Canada's help, and
Canada is the largest per capita
contributor to Ukraine in in dollar
terms, we're contributing militarily and
uh on a humanitarian basis as well. Um,
and we've been there from the start. And
the start was 2014. The start was not 3
years ago. The start was 2014 with the
uh illegal invasion, annexation of
Crimea. Uh attempted annexation, I
guess. Um
the US is essential
for a few things with respect to
Ukraine. It is essential for certain
military equipment, the provision of
that military equipment.
We are happy to or we understand the
need to buy that equipment on behalf of
Ukraine or to help Ukraine finance that
equipment in many cases. So it doesn't
have to be directly supplied by the
United States. obviously would be easier
if the US were doing more uh direct
provision but that's not an insuperable
uh issue. The what is essential is this
other part of your question is when
there is an end of hostilities some form
of ceasefire peace uh frozen conflict
however it ends up being the coalition
the first line of defense will be the
Ukrainian army re reinforced the
coalition of of the willing of which
Canada is a member UK others France uh
will provide important security
guarantees but the ultimate backs stop
does need to have some form of backs
stop in our judgment and judgment of
many others of the United States. So the
United States
>> which is which it there's been no
commitment to
>> there has been which is why I asked you
how far can Ukraine get there has been
well there there's winning there's
there's winning we can debate how that's
defined but winning militarily on the
battlefield uh getting to a position
where there is um a peace accord a
ceasefire a frozen conflict some
understanding uh they can get to that
position with the support of Europe the
support of Canada's support of
Australia, the support of a few others u
and with the US more in a secondary role
having a durable peace durable end of
hostility will require us back like it
it will require the form that that could
take is under active discussion at the
military level at the national security
level we are part of those discussions
uh it is right that nothing has been
concretely agreed spelled out. Uh but I
would say the level of engagement is
encouraging
>> with the US
>> with the US. Yes.
>> So you're hoping you get there. The the
problem is that right now it does seem
that Russia's emboldened drones in NATO
airspace, jets in NATO airspace as
happened over Estonia.
>> I I I I would I would rephrase I
Russia's under pressure. Uh Russia's
under pressure. They're trying what they
can to shift. Uh but they're under
economic pressure. their military
situation. They were making some
progress uh over the course of the
summer. That progress has stopped. Uh
some of it's begun to be in reverse.
>> But it's unnerving for a country like
Estonia to have Russian jets in its
airspace.
>> It's unner Canada has frontline troops
in uh in Latvia.
>> But here's a very concrete thing. If
that happens again, do you support the
idea of a NATO country shooting down
that Russian jet?
the uh direct all options all options
are on the table without question. Uh
there are ongoing consultations within
NATO. NATO countries defend themselves.
Um and um certainly um we will we will
do what's necessary in order to protect
those countries.
>> Are you warning Russia that it is
possible that a NATO country has one of
their planes? If I may, so that for
example, the Polish government has made
those warnings directly in public.
>> There is a precedent because Turkey did
it to a Russia plane 10 years ago.
>> Yeah.
>> Is that the kind of message that you
think it might take at a moment like
this to to show Russia that NATO is
serious? Because President Trump isn't
really showing Russia that America is
serious about Ukraine. I think President
Trump uh has been uh very important in
this in this process. He has given peace
a chance so to speak uh with Russia. He
has been you know at lines of
communication with uh Vladimir Putin
with his special envoy Steve Wickoff. Uh
there's been direct conversations.
There's been opportunities for Putin to
take offramps. Putin has not taken any
of those offramps. Uh the president
speaks for himself but I think his
patience is being exhausted. Um the his
line is hardening.
The likelihood of further economic
sanctions against Russia is increasing
and the severity of those next phase of
sanctions uh could be a different order
of magnitude than previous rounds of
sanctions.
All of that is pointing in one uh one
direction. And I would underscore Russia
has been moving at at literally a
snail's pace in terms of uh acquisition
of territory, temporary acquisition of
territory in Ukraine over the course of
the last three years. Um and they're not
going to win they're not going to win
this war. Um and it's a question of
they're realizing that. And I personally
think that the actions of uh uh Vladimir
Putin over the course of the last few
months spurning the uh opportunity that
President Trump has given him on
multiple occasions. These uh drone
incursions if they are you know
intentional as they increasingly look to
be that
>> making the calculation that America
doesn't there are no consequences for
Spain.
>> Uh President Putin has done nothing but
miscalculate in this war. He made the
calculation that uh NATO would become
divided. NATO is has solidified. You
just have to look to the June
commitments. You have to look how we're
acting. He made the calculation that
Ukraine would capitulate in a matter of
days. He made the calculation that
President Zullinsky would flee. He made
the calculation there would be an
uprising in favor. He has miscalculated
consistently
in this conflict. Another one of your
foreign policy priorities has been the
recogn recognition of a Palestinian
state on which the US fundamentally
disagrees. What
>> what is your next step on that issue?
>> Uh yeah, so the I would say the foreign
policy priority was the recognition not
the end. The end is a free and viable
Palestinian state living side by side
peace and security with the state of
Israel. That's the uh the end goal. Um
what we saw just to to be clear about
why we did what we did was that the
actions of the current government, the
Netanyahu government were explicitly
designed to end any possibility of a
state of Palestine in violation of the
UN charter and going against Canadian
government policy of whatever political
stripe since 1947. Uh
we did this because the prospect was
receding as opposed to viewing it as any
sort of panacea game changer
fundamentally uh immediately leading to
the outcome that we and others want. uh
yes the US disagrees with the the
decision that we took that Spain took
that uh France took the United Kingdom
took 150 other countries in the UN have
taken
but they are common objective is the
same
>> yeah so the for the end goal the actual
establishment of a Palestinian state
living side by side with a secure Israel
to get that you're going to have to keep
up the pressure on the Israeli
government Justin Trudeau said that
Canada would honor the International
Criminal Court arrest warrants, i.e.
Benjamin Netanyahu would be arrested if
he came to Canada. Does that stand under
your leadership?
>> Yes,
>> you'd be prepared to do that.
>> Yes.
>> Are we also in a climate crisis?
>> Uh, we are in a climate crisis. Yeah.
>> That's the last time we spoke was at the
Glasgow climate conference. Grab your
headphones because I want to play you
something that you said around that time
when you were the UN special envoy for
climate action and finance. Here's what
you said.
Human frailties create a tragedy of the
horizon. That means the catastrophic
impacts of climate change will fall
largely on future generations. The
current generation with our horizons
fixated on the current news, business,
and political cycles has few direct
incentives to solve the issue. Even
though the sooner we act, the less
costly it will be.
You were really well known for these
words, this phrase, the tragedy of the
horizon. It's all about
how you need to think long term rather
than on in terms of a short-term
horizon. And yet in office, you scrapped
the consumer carbon tax. You paused the
mandate that was pushing car makers to
sell more and more electric vehicles.
And there are now reports that you are
about to drop the cap on emissions from
the oil and gas sector. What happened to
you?
I'm it's I'm the same me. I'm focused on
the same issues. Um and the question is
how do you make progress towards those
issues? And particularly how do you make
progress in a way that is most
effective? How do you make progress most
effectively? So I'll break those issues
down. the consumer carbon tax uh
was at best going to be responsible for
high singledigit proportion of emissions
reductions over the course of the next
25 years. So it was not it was something
but it was far from the most important
measure that was in place. It was
extremely politically divisive
and it would have contributed to a
government in place that would have
canceled all climate policies in effect.
First point sec that's the design of
that carbon that aspect of the carbon
tax relative to
>> yeah it wasn't perfect
>> it wasn't perfect but so the question is
and the question is how do you use
scarce
government capital government dollars
taxpayers dollars and political capital
in order to have the maximum effect and
so the maximum effect so let let me let
me go more directly to what we are doing
so one of the biggest 20% of the
emissions in Canada thereabouts comes
from the building sector from houses and
and commercial buildings. We've done
very little in terms of reducing those
emissions. We are now embarking on one
of the biggest home building uh measures
in our history which is more than 20%
lower embedded carbon in the production
of these homes. More than 20% lower
carbon footprint in the running of these
homes. Um, so that in itself is is a is
it's a housing uh strategy. It's an
economic strategy, but it's a climate
strategy at the same time.
>> And yet I reading your book, which is
all about values rather than market
value. And reading the way that you
emphasize that these are urgent issues,
that everything takes you everything you
do ought to take you towards a step
further towards the common good, which
is keeping global temperatures as close
to one and a half degrees as you can.
You're the only G7 leader who has been a
UN envoy on climate action.
>> That's Yes, that's true.
>> And the world is clim crying out for
leadership on this, right? President
Trump is calling climate change a hoax.
Are you in danger of squandering your
reputation as a global climate champion
because some of your actions are against
that ultimate goal?
>> I would I' a few things in what you
said. First, it's not about my my role
as prime minister is not about my
reputation. My role as prime minister is
about what's in the best interest of
Canada.
Canadians care about the world. They
care about climate action. They care
about their fellow citizens. They care
about all of those things. Those values
of sustainability and solidarity,
fairness are fundamental to Canadians.
What we need to do is to be as effective
as possible in terms of addressing
climate change while growing our
economy.
>> So, what are you going to do about
emissions from the oil and gas sector?
There is a there is a cap that's
supposed to come in. Is it true that
you're considering dropping it? I what
we're what we're focused on, look, you
can you can say there's a cap, but
saying a cap doesn't make it happen.
What makes the emissions go down in the
oil and gas sector? As long as Canada
and America are using oil and gas, and
we are our our economies are wired for
that, as is the rest of the world. What
makes those emissions go down will be
carbon capture and storage particularly
in other efficiencies.
it then that's what it sounds like.
>> What we're dropping emissions from the
oil and gas dropping emissions Michelle
from the oil and gas sector. This is the
point. This is about results. The
climate cares about results. Doesn't
care about
>> a a a policy that is
an outcome is not a policy. A desired
outcome is not a policy.
>> So I'm getting the strong signals that
that particular policy to have a cap on
emissions from the oil and gas sector is
not going to happen. An outcome is not a
policy. What is what makes a difference
to the climate is whether or not
emissions come down. What's required for
the Canadian oil sands in this case what
we're talking about is carbon encapture
and storage. We signaled our first major
nation building project is something
called the pathways which will get those
emissions down. Second thing related to
this and this is crucial from a climate
perspective is ending methane fu
so-called fugitive methane flaring which
is depending on your horizon and the
horizon that we should we're all in in
the next few decades in terms of climate
warming is up to 70 times a bigger 70
times bigger contributor to climate
change than CO2 emissions and so we have
an opportunity we're working with the
industry working with the provinces to
get those emissions uh methane emissions
down to zero. you are you are explaining
the complexity of what you're dealing
with and I guess I just wonder whether
the Mark Carney of 2020 would be
slightly disappointed in the Mark Carney
>> I think the Mark I think if you look in
the mark in fact I know that looking in
that book uh that you've got your hand
on you will see two important things in
there one is a discussion of exactly
what I just said uh the emissions
reductions and secondly carbon value for
money uh which is a fun fundamental
point which is
using scarce public dollars to most
efficiently reduce emissions.
>> You've clearly had a really intense few
months and you've made clear what you're
up against, right? Canada prospered
under the old world and we're not going
back to the old world.
>> How long do you plan to serve?
>> It's a great question. Um, I think that
um
I'm I'm in a minority uh position. Our
my party is in a minority position in
parliament. We have uh a we ran on a
very strong mandate. In other words,
going to do big things uh that we're
going to put the country in a build the
country strong.
>> But I think you made such big pledges
that it's hard to imagine that you could
fulfill them in less than a decade. So I
imagine you do want to serve two terms.
You want to build a huge number of
houses. You've made a big pledge on
defense spending. You're in a tight
economic framework where growth is hard
to find.
>> Well, you uh it's a democracy and you
have to ask permission from voters for
the time served. Uh I think what's
essential again, we are in a crisis.
We're in an economic crisis. this
fundamental shift in the world and we
make this point and I'll make it again.
It's not a transition, it's a rupture.
It's big changes in a very short period
of time. And the and I know from all my
experience that in those situations, you
have to act big. You have to act bold.
That is what we're going to do. The
politics will favorably or unfavorably
will result from that. But I don't want
to be in a position, however long I
serve, where I didn't do what I didn't
think was necessary at the time. I need
to do what I think is necessary.
>> And what is at stake if you don't
succeed? We're in an age of rising
populism in many countries. In Canada,
the old acceptance of immigration has
changed a lot and anti-immigrant
sentiment is rising. Do you fear the
spectre of populism? Because you've said
populists don't know how to run
economies. I um that's true. Um they
know how to talk about it, but uh they
know how to run economies down. I think
I'll answer the question this way. We're
doing big things. We're building the
economy. And what's important is how
we're building as well. We're building
for example with indigenous Canadians.
There were in these major projects
there'll always be indigenous
participation in the ownership. We are
building in a inclusive way with unions.
uh these we're creating hundreds of
thousands of highpaying skilled careers.
So when I announced our first pardon me
when I announced our first batch of of
nation building projects we had the
heads of all the major unions were there
with me representing the millions of
workers that they uh that are part of
those unions. Uh we are building
sustainably. So when we our our energy
projects a huge swath of clean energy
projects anything in other sectors is
top quartortile or top decile in terms
of the lowest carbon uh emissions
>> but are you are you optimistic about all
of this because everything that you're
signaling is these are very hard roads
to go down where there are a lot of high
expectations and arguably your chances
of delivering certainly in the next five
years are probably relatively low. So
where do you find the optimism?
>> Well, I think that um Canad I know that
Canadians recognize the scale of the
challenge. They want the government to
act. They
feel fundamentally that we need to take
care of ourselves.
That's building for ourselves and it's
diversifying around the world and
they're fundamentally supportive of
that. We have Yes, we have to deliver.
They're not Canadians are not
unrealistic people. They know it won't
change overnight. Uh but they need to
see us doing everything we can to make
sure that it changes for the medium
term.
>> Can we bring it back to you to close
because
this is the Bloomberg weekend interview
and as it happens we're talking on a
weekend. That's you you you've come into
the office to record this on a Saturday.
What what are prime ministerial weekends
like for you these days?
>> Uh they are well I took off my tie. Um
so that's a big big step. Uh they are
pretty indistinguishable from prime
ministerial weeks. I mean certainly when
the house is house of commons is sitting
then there is a a difference between the
two. Uh it's
yeah it's it's it's pretty
fun you know
>> there is no weekend. There is in effect
there in effect there is no weekend with
the sole exception of
>> on a weekend you can find one evening
where just with uh the family you might
be able to go Canada in the winter cross
country skiing or or something or or for
a run or there there is some element of
that but it's pretty it's pretty limited
and that's fine that's exactly what I
would have expected in terms of uh in
terms of the scale the task and uh
weekend I don't know if it's a chance to
catch up but it's a it's on work but
it's a chance to to to plan a bit ahead
>> and the space to think how do you find
that because
>> I find
>> the papers yeah the staff the people
demanding decisions all the time
>> yes uh but part of the job is to create
space to think and to after all the job
is to be a leader
And to be a leader, you need to know
where you're going. And knowing where
you're going means you need a strategy.
And that strategy may need to adapt. I
mean, the world is changing very
rapidly. So if I don't carve out some
time on a weekend, for example, to think
and think about strategy, then I'm not
doing my job. It's very easy. Your your
question is very on point because it's
very easy to be consumed by the here and
now. And there are so many calls on your
time. Everybody wants some of your time
for valid reasons that you have to
resist some of that to preserve some to
chart the course.
>> Mark Carney, Prime Minister, thank you.
>> Thank you, Michelle.